# 3.ObjectOriented

Java is an object-oriented programming (OOP) language, which means that we can design classes, objects, and methods that can perform certain actions. These behaviors are important in the construction of larger, more powerful Java programs.

## Classes

### Syntax

One fundamental concept of object-oriented programming in Java is the _class_.

A _class_ is a set of instructions that describe how a data structure should behave.

Java provides us with its own set of pre-defined classes, but we are also free to create our own custom classes.

Classes in Java are created as follows:

```java
//Create a custom Car class

class Car {

}
```

### Constructors

Let's start by creating the starting state of our class. We can do this by adding a class _constructor_ to it.

1. A class _constructor_ will allow us to create `Dog`instances. With a class constructor, we can set some information about the `Dog`.
2. If we do not create a class constructor, Java provides one that does not allow you to set initial information.

The code below demonstrates how a class constructor is created:

```java
class Car {

    //The class constructor for the Car class
    public Car() {

    }
}
```

### Instance Variables

When we create a new class, we probably have specific details that we want the class to include. We save those specific details into _instance variables_.

Here is an _instance variable_ in the `Car` class that describes a detail that we might want to associate with a car:

```java
class Car {

    //Using instance variables to model our Car class after a real-life car
    int modelYear;

    public Car() {

    }
}
```

### Constructor Parameters

Perfect! By adding a class constructor and creating instance variables, we will soon be able to use the `Dog` class. However, the class constructor `Dog` is still empty. Let's modify this by adding _parameters_ to the `Dog`constructor.

You can think of _parameters_ like options at an ice cream store. You can choose to order a traditional ice cream cone, but other times you may want to specify the size of the cone or the flavor of the ice cream.

For the `Dog` class, we can specify the initial dog age by adding parameters to the class constructor.

1. _Parameters_ allow data types to be created with specified attributes.

Let's add parameters to our `Car` class constructor:

```java
class Car {

    //Use instance variables to model our Car class after a real-life car
    int modelYear;

    public Car(int year) {

        modelYear = year;
    }
}
```

## The Main Method

This is Java's built-in `main` method. We will learn more about methods and keywords around the `main` method later on, but first let's understand what the purpose of `main` is.

1. When Java runs your program, the code inside of the `main` method is executed.

For now, you can ignore the keywords in the `main` method that we have not yet covered. You will learn about them later in the course.

## Objects

To use the `Dog` class, we must create an _instance_ of the `Dog` class. An _instance_ of a class is known as an _object_ in Java.

The example below demonstrates how to create a `Car` object:

```java
class Car {

    int modelYear;

    public Car(int year) {

        modelYear = year;

    }

    public static void main(String[] args){

        Car myFastCar = new Car(2007);

    }
}
```

In the example above, we create a `Car` object named `myFastCar`. When creating `myFastCar`, we used the class constructor and specified a value for the required `int` parameter `year`.

`2007` is the model year of `myFastCar`. Note that we declared the new object inside the `main` method.

## Method

A _method_ is a pre-defined set of instructions. Methods are declared within a class. Java provides some pre-defined methods available to all classes, but we can create our own as well.

Let's create a new _method_:

```java
class Car {

    int modelYear;

    public Car(int year) {

        modelYear = year;

    }

    //Our new method to help us get "started"
    public void startEngine() {

        System.out.println("Vroom!");

    }

    public static void main(String[] args){

        Car myFastCar = new Car(2007);

    }
}
```

Here is an example of _calling_ a method on an object using the `Car` class:

```java
class Car {

    int modelYear;

    public Car(int year) {

        modelYear = year;

    }

    public void startEngine() {

        System.out.println("Vroom!");

    }

    public static void main(String[] args){

        Car myFastCar = new Car(2007);
        myFastCar.startEngine();
    }
}
```

## Inheritance

One of the object-oriented programming concepts that allows us to reuse and maintain code more efficiently is called _inheritance_. It is used to share or _inherit_ behavior from another class. Let's look at an example:

```java
class Car extends Vehicle {

    int modelYear;

    public Car(int year) {

        modelYear = year;

    }

    //Other methods omitted for brevity...

    public static void main(String[] args){

        Car myFastCar = new Car(2007)
        myFastCar.checkBatteryStatus();

    }
}

class Vehicle {

    public void checkBatteryStatus() {

        System.out.println("The battery is fully charged and ready to go!");

    }
}
```
