---
title: "Conditional And Control Flow"
date: 2019-02-10T12:12:12+08:00
tags: [""]
categories: ["工具使用接口", "JAVA"]
---


## Boolean operators

1. There are three Boolean operators that we will explore. Let's start with the first one: *and*.
   1. The *and* operator is represented in Java by `&&`.
   2. It returns a boolean value of `true` only when the expressions on both sides of `&&` are true.

2. Great! The second Boolean operator that we will explore is called *or*.
   1. The *or* operator is represented in Java by `||`.
   2. It returns a Boolean value of `true` when at least one expression on either side of `||` is true.

3. The final Boolean operator we will explore is called *not*.
   1. The *not* operator is represented in Java by `!`.
   2. It will return the opposite of the expression immediately after it. It will return `false` if the expression is true, and `true` if the expression is false.

The *precedence* of each Boolean operator is as follows:

1. `!` is evaluated first
2. `&&` is evaluated second
3. `||` is evaluated third

## `If` Statement

Let's get familiar with how relational, equality, and Boolean operators can be used to control the flow of our code.

We'll start by exploring the *if*statement.

1. In Java, the keyword *if* is the first part of a conditional expression.
2. It is followed by a Boolean expression and then a block of code. If the Boolean expression evaluates to `true`, the block of code that follows will be run.

Here's an example of the *if*statement used with a conditional expression:

```java
if (9 > 2) {
    System.out.println("Control flow rocks!");
}
```

## `If-Else` Statement

Sometimes we execute one block of code when the Boolean expression after the `if`keyword is `true`. Other times we may want to execute a different block of code when the Boolean expression is `false`.

We could write a second `if`statement with a Boolean expression that is opposite the first, but Java provides a shortcut called the `if`/`else`conditional.

1. The `if`/`else` conditional will run the block of code associated with the `if`statement if its Boolean expression evaluates to `true`.
2. Otherwise, if the Boolean expression evaluates to `false`, it will run the block of code after the `else`keyword.

Here's an example of `if`/`else`syntax:

```java
if (1 < 3 && 5 < 4) {
    System.out.println("I defy the Boolean laws!")
} else {
    System.out.println("You can thank George Boole!");
}
```

## `If-ElseIf-Else` Statement

Good work! In some cases, we need to execute a separate block of code depending on different Boolean expressions. For that case, we can use the `if`/`else if`/`else` statement in Java.

1. If the Boolean expression after the `if` statement evaluates to `true`, it will run the code block that directly follows.
2. Otherwise, if the Boolean expression after the `else if` statement evaluates to `true`, the code block that directly follow will run.
3. Finally, if all previous Boolean expressions evaluate to `false`, the code within the `else` block will run.

Here's an example of control flow with the `if`/`else if`/`else`statement:

```java
int shoeSize = 10;

if (shoeSize > 12) {
    System.out.println("Sorry, your shoe size is currently not in stock.");
} else if (shoeSize >= 6) {
    System.out.println("Your shoe size is in stock!");
} else {
    System.out.println("Sorry, this store does not carry shoes smaller than a size 6.");
}
```

## Ternary Conditional

`if`/`else` statements can become lengthy even when you simply want to return a value depending on a Boolean expression. Fortunately, Java provides a shortcut that allows you to write `if`/`else`statements in a single line of code. It is called the *ternary conditional* statement.

The term `ternary` comes from a Latin word that means "composed of three parts".

These three parts are:

1. A Boolean expression
2. A single statement that gets executed if the Boolean expression is true
3. A single statement that gets executed if the Boolean expression is false

Here is an example of a ternary conditional statement:

```java
int pointsScored = 21;

char gameResult = (pointsScored > 20) ? 'W' : 'L';
System.out.println(gameResult);
```

## Switch Statement

The conditional statements that we have covered so far require Boolean expressions to determine which code block to run. Java also provides a way to execute code blocks based on whether a block is equal to a specific value. For those specific cases, we can use the `switch`statement, which helps keep code organized and less wordy.

The switch statement is used as follows:

```java
int restaurantRating = 3;

switch (restaurantRating) {

    case 1: System.out.println("This restaurant is not my favorite.");
      break;

    case 2: System.out.println("This restaurant is good.");
      break;

    case 3: System.out.println("This restaurant is fantastic!");
      break;

    default: System.out.println("I've never dined at this restaurant.");
      break;
}
```


