---
title: "Data Structures"
date: 2019-02-10T12:12:12+08:00
tags: [""]
categories: ["工具使用接口", "JAVA"]
---


## For Loop

The *for loop* repeatedly runs a block of code until a specified condition is met.

The example below shows how a *for loop* is used:

```java
for (int counter = 0; counter < 5; counter++) {

    System.out.println("The counter value is: " + counter);

}
```

The statements within the parentheses of *for loop* compose the following parts:

1. Initialization: the `int` variable named `counter` is initialized to the value of `0`before the loop is run.

2. Test condition: the Boolean expression `counter < 5` is a conditional statement that is evaluated before the code inside the *control statement* is run every loop. If the expression evaluates to `true`, the code in the block will run. Otherwise, if the expression evaluates to `false`, the *for loop* will stop running.

3. Increment: Each time the loop completes, the increment statement is run. The statement `counter++` increases the value of `counter` by `1` after each loop.

## ArrayList

The *ArrayList* stores a list of data of a specified type. Let's go through an example of how to create, or declare, an ArrayList of type `Integer`.

```java
import java.util.ArrayList;

ArrayList<Integer> quizGrades = new ArrayList<Integer>();
```

ArrayList is a **pre-defined Java class**. To use it, we must first create an ArrayList object.

In the example above, we create an ArrayList object called `quizGrades` that will store data types belonging to the `<Integer>` class (whole numbers).

### Manipulation

Let's add some values of type `Integer` to the ArrayList, one by one, like this:

```java
ArrayList<Integer> quizGrades = new ArrayList<Integer>();
quizGrades.add(95);
quizGrades.add(87);
quizGrades.add(83);
```

In the example above, we call the `add`method on `quizGrades`. The `add` method adds integers to the ArrayList. The values `95`, `87`, and `83` are added to the list.

### Access

Here is an example of accessing the element in the first position of the list:

```java
ArrayList<Integer> quizGrades = new ArrayList<Integer>();
quizGrades.add(95);
quizGrades.add(87);
quizGrades.add(73);

System.out.println( quizGrades.get(0) );
```

The example above will print out the grade value of `95`.

### Insertion

To insert new elements into an ArrayList, we can use a slightly different version of the `add`method that you previously used:

```java
ArrayList<Integer> quizGrades = new ArrayList<Integer>();
quizGrades.add(95);
quizGrades.add(87);
quizGrades.add(73);

quizGrades.add(0, 100);
System.out.println( quizGrades.get(0) );
```

### Iterating over

Earlier in this lesson, we learned about the for loop. Since we've also learned how to retrieve the value at a specific index of an ArrayList, we can now access each of the elements.

```java
for (int i = 0; i < quizGrades.size(); i++) {

    System.out.println( quizGrades.get(i) );

}
```

## For Each Loop

Here is an example of the concise *for each loop*:

```java
for (Integer grade : quizGrades){
    System.out.println(grade);
}
```

## HashMap

Another useful built-in data structure in Java is the *HashMap*.

Although the name of the data structure might not make sense to you immediately, think of it as a real-life dictionary. A dictionary contains a set of words and a definition for each word. A HashMap contains a set of *keys*and a *value* for each key.

If we look up a word in a dictionary, we can get the definition. If you provide a HashMap with a *key* that exists, you can retrieve the *value* associated with the key.

Declaring a HashMap is shown in the following example:

```java
import java.util.HashMap;

HashMap<String, Integer> myFriends = new HashMap<String, Integer>();
```

### Manipulation

Add keys and values to a HashMap:

```java
HashMap<String, Integer> myFriends = new HashMap<String, Integer>();

myFriends.put("Mark", 24);
myFriends.put("Cassandra", 25);
myFriends.put("Zenas", 21);
```

### Access

To access data in an ArrayList, we specified the index. In order to access a value in a HashMap, we specify the key:

```java
HashMap<String, Integer> myFriends = new HashMap<String, Integer>();

myFriends.put("Mark", 24);
myFriends.put("Cassandra", 25);
myFriends.put("Zenas", 21);

System.out.println( myFriends.get("Zenas") );
```

### Iterating over

We can also access properties of a HashMap, such as the number of entries or the contents of the HashMap.

Let's access the length and print out the contents of the `myFriends`:

```java
HashMap<String, Integer> myFriends = new HashMap<String, Integer>();

myFriends.put("Mark", 24);
myFriends.put("Cassandra", 25);
myFriends.put("Zenas", 21);

System.out.println( myFriends.size() );

for (String name: myFriends.keySet()) {

    System.out.println(name + " is age: " + myFriends.get(name));

}
```
